.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.TH IBV_ALLOC_MW 3 20012-06-20 libibverbs "Libibverbs Programmer's Manual"
.SH "NAME"
ibv_alloc_mw, ibv_dealloc_mw \- allocate or deallocate a memory window (MW)
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.nf
.B #include <infiniband/verbs.h>
.sp
.BI "struct ibv_mw *ibv_alloc_mw(struct ibv_pd " "*pd" ,
.BI "                            enum ibv_mw_type " "type");
.sp
.BI "int ibv_dealloc_mw(struct ibv_mw " "*mw" );
.fi
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B ibv_alloc_mw()
allocates a memory region (MW) associated with the protection domain
.I pd\fR.
The MW's type (1 or 2A/2B) is
.I type\fR.
.PP
The MW is created not unbounded. For it to be useful, the MW must be bounded, through either ibv_bind_mw (type 1) or a special WQE (type 2). Once bounded, the memory window allows RDMA (remote) access to a subset of the MR to which it was bounded, until invalidated/unbounded/deallocated.
.PP
.B ibv_dealloc_mw()
Unbinds and deallocates the MW
.I mw\fR.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.B ibv_alloc_mw()
returns a pointer to the registered MW, or NULL if the request fails.
The remote key (\fBR_Key\fR)
field
.B rkey
is used by remote processes to perform Atomic and RDMA operations. This key will be changed during bind operations. The remote process places this
.B rkey
as the rkey field of struct ibv_send_wr passed to the ibv_post_send function.
.PP
.B ibv_dealloc_mw()
returns 0 on success, or the value of errno on failure (which indicates the failure reason).
.SH "NOTES"
.B ibv_dereg_mr()
fails if any memory window is still bound to this MR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ibv_alloc_pd (3),
.BR ibv_post_send (3),
.BR ibv_bind_mw (3),
.BR ibv_reg_mr (3),
.SH "AUTHORS"
.TP
Haggai Eran <haggaie@mellanox.com>
.TP
Shachar Raindel <raindel@mellanox.com>
.TP
Yaniv Saar <ysaar@mellanox.com>
